in this video,
we'll move on to look at the summit's function,
which differs from the sun.
If function that we saw in the last video in that you can specify multiple criteria and at
the same time we'll discuss the use of wildcard matches.
06 manipulated numbers that's open up 03 using wild cards with some apes.
Let's first of all,
have a look at the model that we're building and I'll item sales worksheet.
We have a record of all the items that were soul,
the account handler,
the product and the total price on what we're interested in doing in our summary worksheets
is focusing on the performance of our account handlers and then get in there total sales
average transaction,
minimum transaction,
maximum transaction.
But at the same time,
we want to offer the user the possibility,
focusing on a particular product range so they can either specify figures for all ranges or
for a particular range.
And finally,
to get ourselves that challenge how item sales figures have no product range.
Colin.
They know that's a match.
The product we need to focus on the 1st 2 letters off the product reference because The 1st
2 letters of the product reference are the same as the 1st 2 letters of the name of the
product range,
and this will give us a chance to see how wildcard matches have done when you're working
with any of excels,
conditional number crunching functions such as some if averages etcetera.
To add clarity to the formulas that will build,
it's also used main ranges.
Hopefully,
you're familiar with named Rangers.
Let's go across the item sales,
and we're really interested in account,
handler product and total price.
But in the interests of completeness,
let's name all of the columns,
and we've got the choice of either attaching the name to the entire column or simply to the
cells that are filled with data.
Since these figures are historical,
let's use the latter technique and just focus on the cells that have data.
So to do that,
we click in cell,
a one press control ship right arrow,
followed by control ship Down Arrow that's elects all the data and then to create the named
ranges.
We can go to formulas and then the defined names group click on Create from Selection,
and we then just tell excel to create the names using the column headings in the first room
.
So we leave Taco selected Okay and Excel automatically creates the names for us.
We can now use these names in our formulas rather than using the raw column references.
Let's do one final name.
Let's name the cell a one he created.
Name manually.
We click in the Name box,
which is just here and type of name,
which,
of course,
can't have any spaces.
So all underscore ranges and always remember to press enter.
Otherwise the name will register.
The summit's function takes three obligatory arguments on up to 126 optional arguments.
The first parameter is this some range?
This is the range of cells from which you want to create your conditional total.
In our case is the range of cells that we've now called Total price,
the final colon,
and then the second argument is your first criteria range.
And that's gonna be the column containing the names of the account handlers.
And then finally,
we have the criteria that will look in for within that range.
That's gonna be the contents of cell A full,
which,
if you remember is Brandon Jackson,
and then you complete the summits function.
I,
especially if I ng pairs Chrissie arrange criteria,
and you could do that up to 126 more times.
In our case,
of course,
we only need one additional pair,
and this time we're trying to match the product.
So criteria range to will be the column that is now called product and for criteria to will
need to use an if statement to test the value in the cell that we now call range the one
that contains a drop down,
enabling the user to choose a product range.
Let's begin by building the basic formula use in just the 1st 3 obligatory arguments.
Let's begin by expanding the formula so any equal summits or enter and we start with the
some range.
This,
of course,
is in item sales.
The final column column J.
Instead of using the rule reference because we've assigned the name to those cells,
we can use the name in our formula.
One way of doing that is in the formulas tab in the defined names group News in formula and
here we've got total price comma old,
enter And now we're into the first of our criteria range stroke criteria,
pairs.
So the criteria range,
First of all,
is gonna be account handler and again,
we haven't named range.
A second way of entering the name range is simply to type it.
So if I type a cc Excel obligingly displays the name I command,
just press the tab key to insert it into my formula,
comma old enter and then to complete the pair,
we specify the criteria that we want to match within the criteria range.
On this,
of course,
is the name of the account Ambler,
which is in cell able as always because my formula is in the summary work Street.
I'm going to delete the name of the worksheet so formula is not complete.
But let's leave it at that for the moment,
Ault enter closing parenthesis.
So we left it like that.
First of all,
we wouldn't have needed the s we could have disused summit on.
Secondly,
whatever choice the user makes up here is going to be ignored.
So now let's think about the second criteria pairing that we need to insert into our
formula.
The pair always begins with the criteria range.
That,
of course,
is going to be the product column when we haven't named Range called Product to specify
this.
But then,
when we come to specify the criteria that were matching within this range,
we'll need to test the value that the user has chosen in cell a one which we've named
product range.
And the first thing we need to distinguish between is whether they've chosen all ranges or
whether they've chosen a particular product range.
We can do that with an if statement.
We can say,
if our product ranges,
cell equals all Rangers do one thing,
otherwise do another.
So what do we want to do if they choose all ranges?
Basically,
we want to say match every single row within product that miss any rose out.
So the only criteria that's being applied,
the only limitation is that we're matching a particular account handler.
But we want no additional filter in to occur on product on weaken.
Do this by using the wildcard character,
which is asterisk so to complete our formula.
We specify criteria range,
too,
which will be the product column and then for the matching cry interior we use an
excitement biological test will be whether the cell,
called range contains the selection ball.
If it does,
value true will be an asterisk and if it doesn't value of false,
will be the first to characters followed by an asteroid.
So to extract,
the 1st 2 characters will need the left function.
The text will be the cell called Range a one,
and then the number of characters will be to then will refuse 1% asterisks to tag on the
wildcard character.
Let's now complete our formula.
So now I'm gonna add on to more arguments,
comma or cancer.
And in our parents,
the criteria range always comes first.
On the range we're evaluating is the product column.
Since it has a name,
we can use that name cycle to start to type it.
And when it appears in the list inserted by pressing tab old enter and now we come to
specify the criteria that will use within the product.
Colin.
So here were interested in examining this cell and testing to see whether the user has
chosen away ranges,
so he will need an if statement old and how logical test is whether a one that is called
product range,
contains the words or ranges so we can insert product ranges.
I've just noticed that I've called it all ranges rather than product ranges.
So when we finished the formula,
we'll rename that car.
That range would be a better name than war rangers.
So it all ranges equals quotes,
all space ranges,
which is the entry that's actually gonna be displayed in the cell comma.
All came so and value it true will be our wildcard character.
But of course,
goes in quotes.
So quotes,
asterisk,
close quotes,
comma all Danto and then on value it false.
It's going to be the first to characters of the product ranges cell full of by the asterisk
.
So he used a left function to extract the 1st 2 characters.
The text will be all ranges comma.
Number of characters will be,
too the closing premises to end the left function and then I m percent to tag on the
wildcard character and that completes our if statement alone enter and then the clothes in
parenthesis.
All the if statement that completes our formula before we test it.
Let's change the name all ranges to product range,
which is a much better name saying formulas.
We go to name manager and we can just add it all ranges and cool.
It's on the school range.
And the great thing is,
of course,
that Excel automatically ate the name fours,
so you can see we've now the product range instead of all ranges.
So let's just collapse on Formula bar on.
Let's test it so we can now choose a particular range,
and we now see in the total figures for that range.
Brandon Jackson Brain stuff,
52,711 0.8 unless didn't filter to test but brain star,
this time beyond the search criteria se I like all visible cells and then in the bottom
right,
We can see that we've got the correct total.
So let's complete our model and,
of course,
average minimum maximum,
working exactly the same way that we can simply copy the original formula pasted into each
of these cells and change the name of the function
on
that,
we can copy all of these formers down